# Introduction

Modern-day Seville is located in southern Spain. It has been an important settlement since the 8th century BCE. The earliest known inhabitants were the Tartessians who were conquered by the Carthaginians who were in turn conquered by the Romans in the Second Punic War in the year 206 BCE. To the Romans, Seville was Hispalis. This important city was positioned next to the neighboring Roman city of Italica, approximately five miles north of Seville. It was there that Scipio Africanus, the great Roman general of the Second Punic War, settled his veteran soldiers on a hill.

This region around Sevill was the place where Julius Caesar served out his quaestorship; it was the birthplace of two Roman emperors, Trajan and Hadrian, and the home of one of the greatest medieval intellectuals, Isidore who served as archbishop of Seville in the 7th century.

The story of Seville, like most of Spain, is one of conquest. In no better place is this story told than in its architecture. These buildings bear the markings of Spain's Roman, Christian and Muslim past, melded against the backdrop of the modern world.

Most of the Roman ruins of Seville are buried under the modern-day city. We can catch a few glimpses of this past, however, with two important landmarks.

# Aqueduct

The first are the few ruins of the Roman aqueducts. Much of this architectural marvel was intentionally destroyed in the 20th century. These aqueducts would have carried vital water to the Roman city of Hispalis from natural springs to the south. There are three small surviving sections that are free to visit and only a fifteen minute walk from the old center of Seville.


# Columns

Along the way, you can also see three original Roman columns that are of Egyptian granite, the same as those used in the city of Rome. Today, they are nestled on a quiet street between two old apartment buildings.


# Transition to Italica

These few surviving fragments of Seville's Roman past paint a small picture of this thriving metropolis. To get a better sense of Roman Hispalis would have looked and functioned, we must look elsewhere; we must turn to Italica.

# Arena

Perhaps the most notably and key area of the archaeological site of Italica is the Roman amphitheater. It is one of the largest of the Roman empire, a testament to the importance and wealth of the region. It is said that the theater could hold up to 25,000 visitors. This is staggering for the ancient world, but it is even more interesting given the fact that only 10,000 people lived in Italica. This means that it likely hosted citizens of neighboring cities.

We know that Rome had settlements throughout the region, such as those in and around modern-day Seville where the remains of mosaics, columns, and aqueducts remain.

This arena would have housed some of the bloodiest games and festivals during the Roman period, namely gladiatorial fights. This was a key source of entertainment for Roman citizens. The amphitheater would have been one of the central buildings within Italica.

# Novus Urbs

The majority of the residents, however, would have lived nearly 100 meters away in the New City, or Novus Urbs. As Rome's population grew and its settlements expanded, it was common for the city to increase in size to achordate its growing population. In doing so, Rome often expanded a city by creating a new set of roads, buildings, and sewers. We can see this throughout the empire. In Italica this occured outside of modern-day Santiponce, the original site of the city.

Because this area lies outside of a modern-day city it means we can explore it today!